it is 10 GMT 1 p.m. in Gaza where
Israeli strikes are continuing across
the strip including in Rafa that's the
main city in the South where hundreds of
thousands of displaced Palestinians have
been Sheltering the un's top court has
ruled Israel should stop its offensive
in the city the international court of
justice also ordered Israel to open the
Rafa border crossing to allow an aid
that says hospitals are running out of
supplies shelling and gunfire has also
been reported near the Kuwaiti Hospital
in Rafa and missiles have hit the
crowded Al shabura refugee
camp begins our coverage from Al
Bala in shabura Camp in central raah
civil defense crew tried to find
survivors after an Israeli strike in the
10th City Palestinians here are hoping
there is change after the court order
because there's nowhere safe to go for
displaced Palestinians at this makeshift
Camp inah decisions at the international
court of justice don't go far enough
after 8 months of Israeli bombardment
they want decisive action to end their
suffering we want these decisions to be
implemented on the ground to stop the
war and not just to talk about ruer
they've committed genocide they've
committed massacres we want all the
Arabs to to stand with us and for the
world to stand with us and stop the war
they shouldn't say one thing and do
something different everything here in
Gaza was completely destroyed so the
decision what the Palestinian need is
immediately stop War we don't need
declaration we need application on the
peach
here while the UN Court delivered its
ruling there was Heavy Israeli bombing
in rafah many Palestinian remain
skeptical that the court order for
Israel to stop its assault on rafah will
have any
effect back at a shabura camp emergency
workers put out fires in this
residential area after an Israeli strike
they're searching homes and telling
people to leave as more bombs are
expected to
fall
alaza Palestine
our correspondent hany Mahmud is joining
us live from De Al Balan Central Gaza
and hany there have been attacks not
just in Rafa but it's a rapidly
deteriorating situation in the north
too yes within the past 12 hours we're
looking at this Israeli military scaling
of attacks across the Gaza Strip from
further southern part of the strip in
Rafa city where the Israeli military has
expanded its military operation beyond
the central part of the city right now
operating within the uh refugee camp
that's a Shabu refug cam where the last
remaining the only remaining operational
hospital now running at the lowest
capacity possible is under Fire the
majority of the public facilities roads
leading to the hospital being either
completely destroyed or severely damage
preventing paramedics and ambulance from
being dispatched and bringing back
injuries and and those were need to be
saved from targeted areas in the central
area and the northern part the Israeli
military continue to attacks across the
strip killing more people inside their
residential home trapping people inside
evacuation Center as it's happening in
the northern part m in the jabalia
refugee camp where it forc further
internal displacement for the remaining
uh population all of this happening
while the UN top court has ordered
Israel to hold it offensive uh on the uh
on the city of RAF just to get better
and and broader context on what's going
on we are joined by Maha Al husseini a
strategy director from the Euro mid uh
human rights monitor Maha thank you so
much for joining us thank You Maha the
UN top coure just uh issued a dramatic
ruling ordering Israel to hold its
offensive on Rafa City and increase
humanitarian Aid what does that mean for
Palestinian well this is a very
important and crucial step that uh the
the world has long awaited for uh for
decades not just since the beginning of
this uh genocide on the Gaza strap since
the 7th of October uh this is finally a
recognition by the International
Community that has long resorted and um
uh only issued timid statements about
Israel's violations that what Israel is
doing in the Gaza STP is has actually uh
cross all limits um since the beginning
of this Palestinian catastrophe and back
in 1948 for example when Palestinians
have been forcibly expelled from their
homes and Villages and when the
International Community has continued
not only to set on the fence but also to
support Israel by providing arms that
have been used against the Palestinians
and have been uh involved in war crimes
and crimes against humanity Palestinians
have uh uh lost faith in humanity uh
they have felt that they were abandoned
failed by the International Community
this is now a milestone but what is more
important now is to ask what's next uh
will this be uh just uh ink on paper
like Palestinians have long uh witnessed
will this just be uh uh orders that will
not actually be uh pressure on Israel to
abide by international law this is the
most important question we are now
witnessing a genocide that the world is
watching on their screens and while we
are we are witnessing and living this
genocide there there's no much time left
we do not have any time every hour every
minute there is a New Soul that is lost
there is a new life that is devastated
and we need to take action now this is
really important it takes me to the next
question a question of applicability
this is not the first time we see
resolution decision at the international
level is being made the general assembly
the UN Security Council but again the
question now how applicable is that on
the ground well unfortunately successive
Israeli governments have failed to
comply by International orders and
international laws including conventions
that Israel itself signed on and
ratified so including by for example the
icj's provisional measures which have
been uh issued a couple of months ago uh
Israel has failed also to uh ader and
comply by these orders Only Yesterday
following a couple of hours following
the decision of the icj uh Israel has
continued to uh uh bom brafa and also
they have carried out unprecedented
Israeli air strikes on the center of
Rafa uh including by preventing uh
medical Crews and ambulances from
reaching this area preventing or uh also
targeting every moving thing uh in the
center of Rafa so this is actually um a
sign that Israel is also failing to uh
adere by these AC by these decisions and
this is also a sign that the eraso
community uh is now more than ever needs
to uh take tangible steps to to impose
uh these decisions and to pressure
Israel to ader by them including by
imposing diplomatic economic and
political sanctions on
Israel M the Israeli government almost
everyone in the war cabinet came out and
vly denied uh the that the ruling is
based on on allegation basically denied
all the accusation they said these are
South Africa madeup allegations and
denial that in your work what you do on
the ground you document basically for
the past months everything happened on
the ground the the genocidal act the
practices the ongoing failure of of
providing Aid what what do you what is
your response to these uh like this
denial to the ruling well this is very
important to highlight because this is
not only a facet of the genocide but
also a consequence of Israel's blackout
imposed on the Palestinians on the Gaza
Strip including by for example
preventing and banning International
Crews including un teams and
investigative teams and also
International journals from covering the
events and the real on the ground in
Gaza uh the Israeli offical officials
since the beginning of this genocide
have long talked about their um
adherance by international law and the
legality of their actions but when
talking about genocide we cannot talk
about legality these are two concepts
that are diametrically uh opposed uh we
are talking about war crimes and crimes
against humanity Israel has uh almost uh
violated every provision of the Fourth
Geneva Convention and the Rome statute
and conventions they themselves have
ratified and signed on uh for example
since the beginning of this attack we
have documented several war crimes and
crimes against humanity being uh
committed against the Palestinians in
the Gaza Strip two days ago we have
issued a report a detailed report of 42
uh um forms of torture and inhumane and
degrading treatment uh uh practiced by
the Israeli Army against Palestinian
prisoners and uh uh deines in from the
Gaza STP including sexual assault
threats of rape uh spting and urinating
on
Etc so uh the Israeli Army actually in
Gaza is not only uh um following orders
from Israeli officials to Target and
kill everything that is called
Palestinians or everything that is
Palestinian but they are also given a
green light to improvise new kinds of
crimes and uh kinds of torture against
Palestinians just for being Palestinians
in the Gaz STP which is part of the
genocide being practiced against these
Palestinians so what we are talking
about is crimes against humanity being
uh uh documented not only by our
organization but also by un
organizations un experts and
international organizations working on
the ground and these crimes are not
deniable M thank you so much so as we
heard from mahad the strategy director
at the Euro uh made human rights monitor
the the concern right now is not the
ongoing Israeli failures to abide by
these rulings but also the lack of
mechanism to put pressure on Israel
meaningful a pressure whether it's an
American or at the international level
to actually Force Israel to stop all the
genocidal acts and practices on the
ground and and in the uh the war hany
thank you for that hany mahm joining us
live from there Al balah in central
Gaza make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer